collector/exporter/otelarrowexporter/README.md, before:

# OpenTelemetry Protocol with Apache Arrow Exporter

<!-- status autogenerated section -->
| Status        |           |
| ------------- |-----------|
| Stability     | [development]: traces, metrics, logs   |
| Distributions | [] |
| Issues        | [![Open issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-search/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib?query=is%3Aissue%20is%3Aopen%20label%3Aexporter%2Fotelarrow%20&label=open&color=orange&logo=opentelemetry)](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3Aexporter%2Fotelarrow) [![Closed issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-search/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib?query=is%3Aissue%20is%3Aclosed%20label%3Aexporter%2Fotelarrow%20&label=closed&color=blue&logo=opentelemetry)](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/issues?q=is%3Aclosed+is%3Aissue+label%3Aexporter%2Fotelarrow) |
| [Code Owners](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md#becoming-a-code-owner)    | [@jmacd](https://www.github.com/jmacd), [@moh-osman3](https://www.github.com/moh-osman3) |

[development]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector#development
<!-- end autogenerated section -->

Exports telemetry data using [OpenTelemetry Protocol with Apache
Arrow](https://github.com/open-telemetry/otel-arrow) components with
support for both OpenTelemetry Protocol with Apache
Arrow and standard [OpenTelemetry Protocol](
https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-specification/blob/main/specification/protocol/otlp.md)
(OTLP) protocol via gRPC.

## Getting Started

The [OpenTelemetry Protocol with Apache
Arrow](https://github.com/open-telemetry/otel-arrow) exporter combines
the features and configuration syntax of the core OpenTelemetry
Collector [OTLP
exporter](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/tree/main/exporter/otlpexporter)
component with additional support for the OpenTelemetry Protocol with
Apache Arrow.

OpenTelemetry Protocol with Apache Arrow supports column-oriented data
transport using the Apache Arrow data format.  This component converts
OTLP data into an optimized representation and then sends batches of
data using Apache Arrow to encode the stream.  The [OpenTelemetry
Protocol with Apache Arrow receiver](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/receiver/otelarrowreceiver) component contains logic to reverse the process used in this
component.

The use of an OpenTelemetry Protocol with Apache Arrow
exporter-receiver pair is recommended when the network is expensive.
Typically, expect to see a 50% reduction in bandwidth compared with
the same data being sent using standard OTLP/gRPC with Zstd
compression, batch sizes being equal.

This component includes all the features and configuration of the core
OTLP exporter, making it possible to upgrade from the core OTLP
exporter component.  This is as simple as replacing "otlp" with
"otelarrow" as the component name in the collector configuration.

To enable the OpenTelemetry Protocol with Apache Arrow exporter,
include it in the list of exporters for a pipeline.  The `endpoint`
setting is required.  The `tls` setting is required for insecure
transport.

- `endpoint` (no default): host:port to which the exporter is going to send OTLP trace data,
using the gRPC protocol. The valid syntax is described
[here](https://github.com/grpc/grpc/blob/master/doc/naming.md).
If a scheme of `https` is used then client transport security is enabled and overrides the `insecure` setting.
- `tls`: see [TLS Configuration Settings](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/blob/main/config/configtls/README.md) for the full set of available options.

Example:

```yaml
exporters:
  otelarrow/secure:
    endpoint: external-collector:4317
    tls:
      cert_file: file.cert
      key_file: file.key
  otelarrow/insecure:
    endpoint: internal-collector:4317
    tls:
      insecure: true
```

By default, `zstd` compression is enabled at the gRPC level.  See
[compression configuration](#compression-configuration) below.  To
disable gRPC-level compression, configure "none":

```yaml
exporters:
  otelarrow:
    compression: none
    endpoint: ...
    tls: ...
```

## Configuration

Several helper files are leveraged to provide additional capabilities automatically:

- [gRPC settings](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/blob/main/config/configgrpc/README.md)
- [TLS and mTLS settings](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/blob/main/config/configtls/README.md)
- [Queuing, retry and timeout settings](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/blob/main/exporter/exporterhelper/README.md)

### Arrow-specific Configuration

In the `arrow` configuration block, the following settings enable and
disable the use of OpenTelemetry Protocol with Apache Arrow as opposed
to standard OTLP.

- `disabled` (default: false): disables use of Arrow, causing the exporter to use standard OTLP
- `disable_downgrade` (default: false): prevents this exporter from using standard OTLP.

The following settings determine the resources that the exporter will use:

- `num_streams` (default: number of CPUs): the number of concurrent Arrow streams
- `max_stream_lifetime` (default: unlimited): duration after which streams are recycled.

### Network Configuration

This component uses `round_robin` by default as the gRPC load
balancer.  This can be modified using the `balancer_name` setting, for
example, to configure the `pick_first` balancer:

```yaml
exporters:
  otelarrow:
    balancer_name: pick_first
    endpoint: ...
    tls: ...
```

When the server or an intermediate proxy uses a keepalive setting, the
Arrow-specific `max_stream_lifetime` setting is critical to avoiding
abrupt termination of Arrow streams, which causes retries of the
in-flight requests.  The maximum stream lifetime should be set to a
value less than the minimum of the server's keepalive parameter (and
any of the intermediate proxies), plus the export timeout.

```yaml
exporters:
  otelarrow:
    timeout: 30s
    arrow:
      max_stream_lifetime: 9m30s
    endpoint: ...
    tls: ...
```

When this is configured, the stream will terminate cleanly without
causing retries, with `OK` gRPC status.

The [corresponding `otelarrowreceiver` keepalive setting](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/receiver/otelarrowreceiver#keepalive-configuration), that is
compatible with the one above, reads:

```
receivers:
  otelarrow:
    protocols:
      grpc:
        keepalive:
          server_parameters:
            max_connection_age: 1m
            max_connection_age_grace: 10m
```

### Exporter metrics

In addition to the the standard
[exporterhelper](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/blob/main/exporter/exporterhelper/README.md)
and
[obsreport](https://pkg.go.dev/go.opentelemetry.io/collector/obsreport)
metrics, this component provides network-level measurement instruments
which we anticipate will become part of `exporterhelper` and/or
`obsreport` in the future.  At the `normal` level of metrics detail:

- `exporter_sent`: uncompressed bytes sent, prior to compression
- `exporter_sent_wire`: compressed bytes sent, on the wire.

Arrow's compression performance can be derived by dividing the average
`exporter_sent` value by the average `exporter_sent_wire` value.

At the `detailed` metrics detail level, information about the stream
of data being returned to the exporter will be instrumented:

- `exporter_recv`: uncompressed bytes received, prior to compression
- `exporter_recv_wire`: compressed bytes received, on the wire.

### Compression Configuration

The exporter supports configuring Zstd compression at both the gRPC
and the Arrow level.  The exporter metrics described above will be
correct in either case.  The default settings are subject to change as
we gain experience.

See the Collector [compression
comparison](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/blob/main/config/configgrpc/README.md#compression-comparison)
for general information about the choice of Zstd by default, for other
general compression configuration and benchmark information.

For the OpenTelemetry Protocol with Apache Arrow streams specifically,
gRPC-level the Zstd compression level can be configured.  However,
there is an important caveat: the gRPC-Go library requires that
compressor implementations be registered statically.  These libraries
use compressors named `zstdarrow1`, `zstdarrow2`, ..., `zstdarrow10`,
supporting 10 configurable compression levels.  Note, however that
these configurations are static and only one unique configuration is
possible per level.  It is possible to configure multiple
OpenTelemetry Protocol with Apache Arrow exporters with different Zstd
configuration simply by using distinct levels.

Under `arrow`, the `zstd` sub-configuration has the following fields:

- `level`: in the range 1-10 determines a number of defaults (default 5)
- `window_size_mib`: size of the Zstd window in MiB, 0 indicates to determine based on level (default 0)
- `concurrency`: controls background CPU used for compression, 0 indicates to let `zstd` library decide (default 1)

The exporter supports configuring compression at the [Arrow
columnar-protocol
level](https://arrow.apache.org/docs/format/Columnar.html#format-ipc).

- `payload_compression`: compression applied at the Arrow IPC level, "none" by default, "zstd" supported.

      payload_compression: zstd  # describes Arrow-IPC compression (default "none")

Compression settings at the Arrow IPC level cannot be further
configured.  We do not recommend configuring both payload and
gRPC-level compression at once, hwoever these settings are
independent.

For example, two exporters may be configured with multiple zstd
configurations, provided they use different levels:

```yaml
exporters:
  otelarrow/best:
    compression: zstd  # describes gRPC-level compression (default "zstd")
    arrow:
      zstd:
        level: 10      # describes gRPC-level compression level (default 5)
  otelarrow/fastest:
    compression: zstd
    arrow:
      zstd:
        level: 1       # 1 is the "fastest" compression level
```

Commit message:

Arrow Exporter load prioritizer apparatus (#178)
Adds a configurable prioritization scheme to the Arrow exporter, leaving
the existing "FIFO" policy the default and adding a new "leastloadedN"
policy which considers the least-loaded among N randomly selected
streams.

Adds a README.md explaining the internals of the Arrow streaming
component. Updates the original diagram.

Adds a benchmark that exercises the different prioritizers and
demonstrates different performance characteristics.

This required a substantial redesign of the existing prioritization
scheme, which had some unnecessary complexity. The new design:

1. Uses Context cancelation to implement the downgrade signal
consistently across prioritizers
2. Simplifies stream-shutdown and restart by re-using the
`streamWorkState` object across streams
3. Adds a drain() method to clean up after downgrade, as opposed to the
formerly-complex synchronization used.

Extends most tests to cover all prioritizers.

Fixes #147.

collector/exporter/otelarrowexporter/README.md, after:

# OpenTelemetry Protocol with Apache Arrow Exporter

<!-- status autogenerated section -->
| Status        |           |
| ------------- |-----------|
| Stability     | [development]: traces, metrics, logs   |
| Distributions | [] |
| Issues        | [![Open issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-search/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib?query=is%3Aissue%20is%3Aopen%20label%3Aexporter%2Fotelarrow%20&label=open&color=orange&logo=opentelemetry)](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3Aexporter%2Fotelarrow) [![Closed issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-search/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib?query=is%3Aissue%20is%3Aclosed%20label%3Aexporter%2Fotelarrow%20&label=closed&color=blue&logo=opentelemetry)](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/issues?q=is%3Aclosed+is%3Aissue+label%3Aexporter%2Fotelarrow) |
| [Code Owners](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md#becoming-a-code-owner)    | [@jmacd](https://www.github.com/jmacd), [@moh-osman3](https://www.github.com/moh-osman3) |

[development]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector#development
<!-- end autogenerated section -->

Exports telemetry data using [OpenTelemetry Protocol with Apache
Arrow](https://github.com/open-telemetry/otel-arrow) components with
support for both OpenTelemetry Protocol with Apache
Arrow and standard [OpenTelemetry Protocol](
https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-specification/blob/main/specification/protocol/otlp.md)
(OTLP) protocol via gRPC.

## Getting Started

The [OpenTelemetry Protocol with Apache
Arrow](https://github.com/open-telemetry/otel-arrow) exporter combines
the features and configuration syntax of the core OpenTelemetry
Collector [OTLP
exporter](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/tree/main/exporter/otlpexporter)
component with additional support for the OpenTelemetry Protocol with
Apache Arrow.

OpenTelemetry Protocol with Apache Arrow supports column-oriented data
transport using the Apache Arrow data format.  This component converts
OTLP data into an optimized representation and then sends batches of
data using Apache Arrow to encode the stream.  The [OpenTelemetry
Protocol with Apache Arrow receiver](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/receiver/otelarrowreceiver) component contains logic to reverse the process used in this
component.

The use of an OpenTelemetry Protocol with Apache Arrow
exporter-receiver pair is recommended when the network is expensive.
Typically, expect to see a 50% reduction in bandwidth compared with
the same data being sent using standard OTLP/gRPC with Zstd
compression, batch sizes being equal.

This component includes all the features and configuration of the core
OTLP exporter, making it possible to upgrade from the core OTLP
exporter component.  This is as simple as replacing "otlp" with
"otelarrow" as the component name in the collector configuration.

To enable the OpenTelemetry Protocol with Apache Arrow exporter,
include it in the list of exporters for a pipeline.  The `endpoint`
setting is required.  The `tls` setting is required for insecure
transport.

- `endpoint` (no default): host:port to which the exporter is going to send OTLP trace data,
using the gRPC protocol. The valid syntax is described
[here](https://github.com/grpc/grpc/blob/master/doc/naming.md).
If a scheme of `https` is used then client transport security is enabled and overrides the `insecure` setting.
- `tls`: see [TLS Configuration Settings](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/blob/main/config/configtls/README.md) for the full set of available options.

Example:

```yaml
exporters:
  otelarrow/secure:
    endpoint: external-collector:4317
    tls:
      cert_file: file.cert
      key_file: file.key
  otelarrow/insecure:
    endpoint: internal-collector:4317
    tls:
      insecure: true
```

By default, `zstd` compression is enabled at the gRPC level.  See
[compression configuration](#compression-configuration) below.  To
disable gRPC-level compression, configure "none":

```yaml
exporters:
  otelarrow:
    compression: none
    endpoint: ...
    tls: ...
```

## Configuration

Several helper files are leveraged to provide additional capabilities automatically:

- [gRPC settings](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/blob/main/config/configgrpc/README.md)
- [TLS and mTLS settings](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/blob/main/config/configtls/README.md)
- [Queuing, retry and timeout settings](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/blob/main/exporter/exporterhelper/README.md)

### Arrow-specific Configuration

In the `arrow` configuration block, the following settings enable and
disable the use of OpenTelemetry Protocol with Apache Arrow as opposed
to standard OTLP.

- `disabled` (default: false): disables use of Arrow, causing the exporter to use standard OTLP
- `disable_downgrade` (default: false): prevents this exporter from using standard OTLP.

The following settings determine the resources that the exporter will use:

- `num_streams` (default: number of CPUs): the number of concurrent Arrow streams
- `max_stream_lifetime` (default: unlimited): duration after which streams are recycled.

#### Load balancing

The `arrow` configuration block includes a configurable prioritization
policy.  The default policy, named "fifo", distributes work to the
stream with the first-available writer.

- `prioritizer` (default: fifo): may be set to "leastloadedN" with N a positive integer.  Values of N greater than `num_streams` are lowered to equal `num_streams`. 

An alternative policy named "leastloadedN" is available, for values of
N up to the number of configured streams (e.g., leastloaded2,
leastloaded10).  This prioritizer makes a random selection of up to N
streams and chooses the stream with the least number of outstanding
work items.

### Network Configuration

This component uses `round_robin` by default as the gRPC load
balancer.  This can be modified using the `balancer_name` setting, for
example, to configure the `pick_first` balancer:

```yaml
exporters:
  otelarrow:
    balancer_name: pick_first
    endpoint: ...
    tls: ...
```

When the server or an intermediate proxy uses a keepalive setting, the
Arrow-specific `max_stream_lifetime` setting is critical to avoiding
abrupt termination of Arrow streams, which causes retries of the
in-flight requests.  The maximum stream lifetime should be set to a
value less than the minimum of the server's keepalive parameter (and
any of the intermediate proxies), plus the export timeout.

```yaml
exporters:
  otelarrow:
    timeout: 30s
    arrow:
      max_stream_lifetime: 9m30s
    endpoint: ...
    tls: ...
```

When this is configured, the stream will terminate cleanly without
causing retries, with `OK` gRPC status.

The [corresponding `otelarrowreceiver` keepalive setting](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/receiver/otelarrowreceiver#keepalive-configuration), that is
compatible with the one above, reads:

```
receivers:
  otelarrow:
    protocols:
      grpc:
        keepalive:
          server_parameters:
            max_connection_age: 1m
            max_connection_age_grace: 10m
```

### Exporter metrics

In addition to the the standard
[exporterhelper](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/blob/main/exporter/exporterhelper/README.md)
and
[obsreport](https://pkg.go.dev/go.opentelemetry.io/collector/obsreport)
metrics, this component provides network-level measurement instruments
which we anticipate will become part of `exporterhelper` and/or
`obsreport` in the future.  At the `normal` level of metrics detail:

- `exporter_sent`: uncompressed bytes sent, prior to compression
- `exporter_sent_wire`: compressed bytes sent, on the wire.

Arrow's compression performance can be derived by dividing the average
`exporter_sent` value by the average `exporter_sent_wire` value.

At the `detailed` metrics detail level, information about the stream
of data being returned to the exporter will be instrumented:

- `exporter_recv`: uncompressed bytes received, prior to compression
- `exporter_recv_wire`: compressed bytes received, on the wire.

### Compression Configuration

The exporter supports configuring Zstd compression at both the gRPC
and the Arrow level.  The exporter metrics described above will be
correct in either case.  The default settings are subject to change as
we gain experience.

See the Collector [compression
comparison](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/blob/main/config/configgrpc/README.md#compression-comparison)
for general information about the choice of Zstd by default, for other
general compression configuration and benchmark information.

For the OpenTelemetry Protocol with Apache Arrow streams specifically,
gRPC-level the Zstd compression level can be configured.  However,
there is an important caveat: the gRPC-Go library requires that
compressor implementations be registered statically.  These libraries
use compressors named `zstdarrow1`, `zstdarrow2`, ..., `zstdarrow10`,
supporting 10 configurable compression levels.  Note, however that
these configurations are static and only one unique configuration is
possible per level.  It is possible to configure multiple
OpenTelemetry Protocol with Apache Arrow exporters with different Zstd
configuration simply by using distinct levels.

Under `arrow`, the `zstd` sub-configuration has the following fields:

- `level`: in the range 1-10 determines a number of defaults (default 5)
- `window_size_mib`: size of the Zstd window in MiB, 0 indicates to determine based on level (default 0)
- `concurrency`: controls background CPU used for compression, 0 indicates to let `zstd` library decide (default 1)

The exporter supports configuring compression at the [Arrow
columnar-protocol
level](https://arrow.apache.org/docs/format/Columnar.html#format-ipc).

- `payload_compression`: compression applied at the Arrow IPC level, "none" by default, "zstd" supported.

      payload_compression: zstd  # describes Arrow-IPC compression (default "none")

Compression settings at the Arrow IPC level cannot be further
configured.  We do not recommend configuring both payload and
gRPC-level compression at once, hwoever these settings are
independent.

For example, two exporters may be configured with multiple zstd
configurations, provided they use different levels:

```yaml
exporters:
  otelarrow/best:
    compression: zstd  # describes gRPC-level compression (default "zstd")
    arrow:
      zstd:
        level: 10      # describes gRPC-level compression level (default 5)
  otelarrow/fastest:
    compression: zstd
    arrow:
      zstd:
        level: 1       # 1 is the "fastest" compression level
```
