RELEASING.md, before:

# Releasing

To make a release of one or more Golang modules in the OTel Arrow repository,
follow these steps.

1. Using Git, checkout the version of the repo that will be released and create
   a new branch for the release, for example,

```shell
git checkout main
git pull upstream main
git checkout -b release_xx_yy_zz
```

1. Update OTel-Collector dependencies.  It will frequently be necessary to
   update all v0.x OTel-Collector dependencies.  The steps are:

   a. For each go.mod in the repository, run a command like

   ```shell
   for x in `grep OLDVERSION go.mod | awk '{print $1}'`; do go get $x@NEWVERSION; done
   ```

   b. Run `make test`; fix any build breakage.  If there have been refactorings
      in the Collector APIs, there are likely to be small changes required.

   c. Edit `Makefile`, replace the string
      `go.opentelemetry.io/collector/cmd/builder@OLDVERSION` with
      `go.opentelemetry.io/collector/cmd/builder@NEWVERSION`.

   d. Run `make genotelarrowcol`

   e. Run `make otelarrowcol`

1. Make sure the CHANGELOG.md file is up to date, add entries describing the
   changes in the new release.  If collector dependencies have changed during
   this release cycle, `make genotelarrowcol` should have been run to
   synchronize dependencies.

1. Using Make, prepare the release means updating Go modules and checking in the
   changes, for example.

   ```shell
   make prepare-release
   ```

1. Push the branch and open a PR to submit these changes to the upstream
   repository's main branch.

1. After merging the PR, pull the upstream commit, for example,

   ```shell
   git checkout main
   git pull upstream main
   ```

1. Push the release, for example,

   ```shell
   make push-release
   ```

1. The tag has now been published, but need to manually create the release in
   the Github UI. Go to
   [releases](https://github.com/open-telemetry/otel-arrow/releases) and click
   `Draft a new release`. Select the tag you pushed in step 6 and link the
   Changelog in the description, following the convention of previous releases.
   TODO: automate this step to trigger whenever a new release tag is pushed.

The release has been published.  Note that these instructions do not cover the
use of multiple module sets, since this repository uses a single module set
named "beta" at this time.

1. Re-enable CI/CD by reverting the change to `.github/workflows/ci.yml`.

Commit message:

Update changelog and releasing docs

RELEASING.md, after:

# Releasing

To make a release of one or more Golang modules in the OTel Arrow repository,
follow these steps.

Note that they may be performed in multiple PRs, or all together if confident in
the methodology.

> NOTE: Currently there is only a defined process in place for the Golang
> components in this repository. As the Rust portion evolves, there should be
> additional steps added here for those components.

## Upgrade OpenTelemetry Collector Dependencies (optional, recommended)

1. Using Git, checkout the version of the repo that will be released and create
   a new branch for the release, for example,

   ```shell
   git checkout main
   git pull upstream main
   git checkout -b release_xx_yy_zz
   ```

1. Update OTel-Collector dependencies.  It will frequently be necessary to
   update all v0.x OTel-Collector dependencies.  The steps are:

   a. For each go.mod in the repository, run a command like

   ```shell
   for x in `grep OLDVERSION go.mod | awk '{print $1}'`; do go get $x@NEWVERSION; done
   ```

   b. Run `make test`; fix any build breakage.  If there have been refactorings
      in the Collector APIs, there are likely to be small changes required.

   c. Edit `Makefile`, replace the string
      `go.opentelemetry.io/collector/cmd/builder@OLDVERSION` with
      `go.opentelemetry.io/collector/cmd/builder@NEWVERSION`.

   d. Run `make genotelarrowcol`

   e. Run `make otelarrowcol`

## Update Changelog and released module versions (required)

1. Make sure the CHANGELOG.md file is up to date, add entries describing the
   changes in the new release.  If collector dependencies have changed during
   this release cycle, `make genotelarrowcol` should have been run to
   synchronize dependencies.

1. Using Make, prepare the release means updating Go modules and checking in the
   changes, for example.

   ```shell
   make prepare-release
   ```

1. Push the branch and open a PR to submit these changes to the upstream
   repository's main branch.

## Tag commit as a Release

1. After merging the PR, pull the upstream commit, for example,

   ```shell
   git checkout main
   git pull upstream main
   ```

1. Push the release, for example,

   ```shell
   make push-release
   ```

   If you get an error about 'gpg failed to sign the data', follow GitHub's
   instructions to [add a GPG signing
   key](https://docs.github.com/en/authentication/managing-commit-signature-verification/telling-git-about-your-signing-key)
   for your committer account.

   > Note: Repository write access is required to perform this step. Contact a
   > repository maintainer for help if you are unable to run this command.

1. The tag has now been published, but need to manually create the release in
   the Github UI. Go to
   [releases](https://github.com/open-telemetry/otel-arrow/releases) and click
   `Draft a new release`. Select the tag you just pushed and link the Changelog
   in the description, following the convention of previous releases. TODO:
   automate this step to trigger whenever a new release tag is pushed.

The release has been published.  Note that these instructions do not cover the
use of multiple module sets, since this repository uses a single module set
named "beta" at this time.
