collector/processor/concurrentbatchprocessor/README.md, before:

# Concurrent Batch Processor

This component is an experimental processor, forked from the [core
OpenTelemetry Collector `batchprocessor`
component](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/blob/main/processor/batchprocessor/README.md).
The differences in this component, relative to that component are:

1. Synchronous pipeline support: this component blocks each producer
   until the request returns with success or an error status code.
2. Maximim in-flight-bytes setting.  This component measures the
   in-memory size of each request it admits to the pipeline and
   otherwise stalls requests until they timeout.
3. Unlimited concurrency: this component will start as many goroutines
   as needed to send batches through the pipeline.
   
Here is an example configuration:

```
    processors:
      concurrentbatch:
        send_batch_max_size: 1500
        send_batch_size: 1000
        timeout: 1s
        max_in_flight_size_mib: 128
```

In this configuration, the component will admit up to 128MiB of
request data before stalling.

Commit message:

[concurrentbatchprocessor] Allow max_in_flight_size_mib to be set to zero to disable inflight limit (#243)
For OTel-Arrow, we now prefer to limit admitted bytes in the receiver.
Allow the function to be disabled in the CBP.
([Refer to this for reciever admission
control](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/blob/main/receiver/otelarrowreceiver/README.md#arrow-specific-configuration).)

collector/processor/concurrentbatchprocessor/README.md, after:

# Concurrent Batch Processor

This component is an experimental processor, forked from the [core
OpenTelemetry Collector `batchprocessor`
component](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/blob/main/processor/batchprocessor/README.md).
The differences in this component, relative to that component are:

1. Synchronous pipeline support: this component blocks each producer
   until the request returns with success or an error status code.
2. Maximim in-flight-bytes setting.  This component measures the
   in-memory size of each request it admits to the pipeline and
   otherwise stalls requests until they timeout.  This function is
   disabled by `max_in_flight_size_mib: 0`.
3. Unlimited concurrency: this component will start as many goroutines
   as needed to send batches through the pipeline.
   
Here is an example configuration:

```
    processors:
      concurrentbatch:
        send_batch_max_size: 1500
        send_batch_size: 1000
        timeout: 1s
        max_in_flight_size_mib: 128
```

In this configuration, the component will admit up to 128MiB of
request data before stalling.
