tools/trace_analyzer/README.md, before:

# Trace Analyzer

This tool is designed for trace analysis and the generation of statistical
reports. Its primary function is to ascertain how a given trace dataset is
encoded using the OTel Arrow Protocol.

To view statistics for all .zst files, use the command below. These files should
be in JSON format, compressed with ZSTD and bearing the .zst extension. Batches
are configured to handle 2,000 spans.

```shell
go run tools/traces_analyzer/main.go -format json -batch-size 2000 -schema-stats -schema-updates -producer-stats -record-stats *.zst
```

## Supported flags

By default, there is no flag enabled. All these flags are cumulative.

| Flag               | Description                               |
|--------------------|-------------------------------------------|
| -schema-stats      | Display Arrow schema statistics           |
| -record-stats      | Display Arrow record statistics           |
| -schema-updates    | Display Arrow schema updates              |
| -producer-stats    | Display OTel Arrow producer statistics    |
| -compression-ratio | Display compression ratio per record type |  
| -all               | Display all statistics and updates        |

## Supported formats

| Format | Description                                                |
|--------|------------------------------------------------------------|
| json   | JSON format (compressed with ZSTD and with extension .zst) |
| proto  | Protobuf format                                            |

Commit message:

add options to #rows per payload type

tools/trace_analyzer/README.md, after:

# Trace Analyzer

This tool is designed for trace analysis and the generation of statistical
reports. Its primary function is to ascertain how a given trace dataset is
encoded using the OTel Arrow Protocol.

To view statistics for all .zst files, use the command below. These files should
be in JSON format, compressed with ZSTD and bearing the .zst extension. Batches
are configured to handle 2,000 spans.

```shell
go run tools/traces_analyzer/main.go -format json -batch-size 2000 -all *.zst
```

## Supported flags

By default, there is no flag enabled. All these flags are cumulative.

| Flag               | Description                               |
|--------------------|-------------------------------------------|
| -schema-stats      | Display Arrow schema statistics           |
| -record-stats      | Display Arrow record statistics           |
| -schema-updates    | Display Arrow schema updates              |
| -producer-stats    | Display OTel Arrow producer statistics    |
| -compression-ratio | Display compression ratio per record type |  
| -all               | Display all statistics and updates        |

## Supported formats

Use the `-format` option to specify the format of your input file.

| Format | Description                                                |
|--------|------------------------------------------------------------|
| json   | JSON format (compressed with ZSTD and with extension .zst) |
| proto  | Protobuf format                                            |

## Dump data per record type

| Option                    | Description                                                 |
|---------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------|
| -spans=<#rows>            | Number of spans to display per Arrow record                 |
| -resource-attrs=<#rows>   | Number of resource attributes to display per Arrow record   |
| -span-attrs=<#rows>       | Number of span attributes to display per Arrow record       |
| -span-events=<#rows>      | Number of span events to display per Arrow record           |
| -span-links=<#rows>       | Number of span links to display per Arrow record            |
| -span-event-attrs=<#rows> | Number of span event attributes to display per Arrow record |
| -span-link-attrs=<#rows>  | Number of span link attributes to display per Arrow record  |
