collector/receiver/otelarrowreceiver/README.md, before:

# OTel-Arrow Receiver

<!-- status autogenerated section -->
| Status        |           |
| ------------- |-----------|
| Stability     | [development]: metrics, traces, logs   |
| Distributions | [contrib] |
| Issues        | [![Open issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-search/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib?query=is%3Aissue%20is%3Aopen%20label%3Areceiver%2Fotelarrow%20&label=open&color=orange&logo=opentelemetry)](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3Areceiver%2Fotelarrow) [![Closed issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-search/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib?query=is%3Aissue%20is%3Aclosed%20label%3Areceiver%2Fotelarrow%20&label=closed&color=blue&logo=opentelemetry)](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/issues?q=is%3Aclosed+is%3Aissue+label%3Areceiver%2Fotelarrow) |

[development]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector#development
[contrib]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-releases/tree/main/distributions/otelcol-contrib
<!-- end autogenerated section -->

Receives telemetry data using the
[OTel-Arrow](https://github.com/open-telemetry/otel-arrow) protocol
via gRPC and standard [OTLP](
https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-specification/blob/main/specification/protocol/otlp.md)
protocol via gRPC.

## Getting Started

The OTel-Arrow receiver is an extension of the core OpenTelemetry
Collector [OTLP
receiver](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/tree/main/receiver/otlpreceiver)
component with additional support for the
[OTel-Arrow](https://github.com/open-telemetry/otel-arrow) protocol.

OTel-Arrow supports column-oriented data transport using the Apache
Arrow data format.  The [OTel-Arrow
exporter](https://github.com/open-telemetry/otel-arrow/blob/main/collector/exporter/otelarrowexporter/README.md)
converts OTLP data into an optimized representation and then sends
batches of data using Apache Arrow to encode the stream.  This
component contains logic to reverse the process used in the OTel-Arrow
exporter.

The use of an OTel-Arrow exporter-receiver pair is recommended when
the network is expensive.  Typically, expect to see a 50% reduction in
bandwidth compared with the same data being sent using standard
OTLP/gRPC and gzip compression.

This component includes all the features and configuration of the core
OTLP receiver, making it possible to upgrade from the core component
simply by replacing "otlp" with "otelarrow" as the component name in
the collector configuration.

To enable the OTel-Arrow receiver, include it in the list of receivers
for a pipeline.  No further configuration is needed.  This receiver
listens on the standard OTLP/gRPC port 4317 and serves standard OTLP
over gRPC out of the box.

```yaml
receivers:
  otelarrow:
```

## Advanced Configuration

Users may wish to configure gRPC settings, for example:

```
receivers:
  otelarrow:
    protocols:
      grpc:
        ...
```

- `endpoint` (default = 0.0.0.0:4317 for grpc protocol):
  host:port to which the receiver is going to receive data. The valid syntax is
  described at https://github.com/grpc/grpc/blob/master/doc/naming.md.

Several common configuration structures provide additional capabilities automatically:

- [gRPC settings](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/blob/main/config/configgrpc/README.md)
- [TLS and mTLS settings](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/blob/main/config/configtls/README.md)

### Arrow-specific Configuration

In the `arrow` configuration block, the following settings are available:

- `memory_limit_mib` (default: 128): limits the amount of concurrent memory used by Arrow data buffers.

When the limit is reached, the receiver will return RESOURCE_EXHAUSTED
error codes to the receiver, which are [conditionally retryable, see
exporter retry configuration](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/blob/main/exporter/exporterhelper/README.md).

### Compression Configuration

In the `arrow` configuration block, `zstd` sub-section applies to all
compression levels used by exporters:

- `memory_limit_mib` limits memory dedicated to Zstd decompression, per stream (default 128)
- `max_window_size_mib`: maximum size of the Zstd window in MiB, 0 indicates to determine based on level (default 32)
- `concurrency`: controls background CPU used for decompression, 0 indicates to let `zstd` library decide (default 1)

### Keepalive configuration

As a gRPC streaming service, the OTel Arrow receiver is able to limit
stream lifetime through configuration of the underlying http/2
connection via keepalive settings.

Keepalive settings are vital to the operation of OTel Arrow, because
longer-lived streams use more memory and streams are fixed to a single
host.  Since every stream of data is different, we recommend
experimenting to find a good balance between memory usage, stream
lifetime, and load balance.

gRPC libraries do not build-in a facility for long-lived RPCs to learn
about impending http/2 connection state changes, including the event
that initiates connection reset.  While the receiver knows its own
keepalive settings, a shorter maximum connection lifetime can be
imposed by intermediate http/2 proxies, and therefore the receiver and
exporter are expected to independently configure these limits.

```
receivers:
  otelarrow:
    protocols:
      grpc:
        keepalive:
          server_parameters:
            max_connection_age: 1m
            max_connection_age_grace: 10m
```

In the example configuration above, OTel-Arrow streams will have reset
initiated after 10 minutes.  Note that `max_connection_age` is set to
a small value and we recommend tuning `max_connection_age_grace`.

OTel Arrow exporters are expected to configure their
`max_stream_lifetime` property to a value that is slightly smaller
than the receiver's `max_connection_age_grace` setting, which causes
the exporter to cleanly shut down streams, allowing requests to
complete before the http/2 connection is forcibly closed.  While the
exporter will retry data that was in-flight during an unexpected
stream shutdown, instrumentation about the telemety pipeline will show
RPC errors when the exporter's `max_stream_lifetime` is not configured
correctly.

[See the exporter README for more
guidance](../../exporter/otelarrowexporter/README.md).  For the
example where `max_connection_age_grace` is set to 10 minutes, the
exporter's `max_stream_lifetime` should be set to the same number
minus a reasonable timeout to allow in-flight requests to complete.
For example, an exporter with `9m30s` stream lifetime:

```
exporters:
  otelarrow:
    timeout: 30s
    arrow:
      max_stream_lifetime: 9m30s
    endpoint: ...
    tls: ...
```

### Receiver metrics

In addition to the the standard
[obsreport](https://pkg.go.dev/go.opentelemetry.io/collector/obsreport)
metrics, this component provides network-level measurement instruments
which we anticipate will become part of `obsreport` in the future.  At
the `normal` level of metrics detail:

- `receiver_recv`: uncompressed bytes received, prior to compression
- `receiver_recv_wire`: compressed bytes received, on the wire.

Arrow's compression performance can be derived by dividing the average
`receiver_recv` value by the average `receiver_recv_wire` value.

At the `detailed` metrics detail level, information about the stream
of data being returned from the receiver will be instrumented:

- `receiver_sent`: uncompressed bytes sent, prior to compression
- `receiver_sent_wire`: compressed bytes sent, on the wire.

There several OTel-Arrow-consumer related metrics available to help
diagnose internal performance.  These are disabled at the basic level
of detail.  At the normal level, these metrics are introduced:

- `arrow_batch_records`: Counter of Arrow-IPC records processed
- `arrow_memory_inuse`: UpDownCounter of memory in use by current streams
- `arrow_schema_resets`: Counter of times the schema was adjusted, by data type.

```
service
  ...
  telemetry:
    ...
    metrics:
      ...
      level: detailed
```

Commit message:

(otelarrowreceiver): document new config options (#191)
This PR adds information about the new config options added in
https://github.com/open-telemetry/otel-arrow/pull/181 to the
otelarrowreceiver readme.

---------

Co-authored-by: Joshua MacDonald <jmacd@users.noreply.github.com>

collector/receiver/otelarrowreceiver/README.md, after:

# OTel-Arrow Receiver

<!-- status autogenerated section -->
| Status        |           |
| ------------- |-----------|
| Stability     | [development]: metrics, traces, logs   |
| Distributions | [contrib] |
| Issues        | [![Open issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-search/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib?query=is%3Aissue%20is%3Aopen%20label%3Areceiver%2Fotelarrow%20&label=open&color=orange&logo=opentelemetry)](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3Areceiver%2Fotelarrow) [![Closed issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-search/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib?query=is%3Aissue%20is%3Aclosed%20label%3Areceiver%2Fotelarrow%20&label=closed&color=blue&logo=opentelemetry)](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/issues?q=is%3Aclosed+is%3Aissue+label%3Areceiver%2Fotelarrow) |

[development]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector#development
[contrib]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-releases/tree/main/distributions/otelcol-contrib
<!-- end autogenerated section -->

Receives telemetry data using the
[OTel-Arrow](https://github.com/open-telemetry/otel-arrow) protocol
via gRPC and standard [OTLP](
https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-specification/blob/main/specification/protocol/otlp.md)
protocol via gRPC.

## Getting Started

The OTel-Arrow receiver is an extension of the core OpenTelemetry
Collector [OTLP
receiver](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/tree/main/receiver/otlpreceiver)
component with additional support for the
[OTel-Arrow](https://github.com/open-telemetry/otel-arrow) protocol.

OTel-Arrow supports column-oriented data transport using the Apache
Arrow data format.  The [OTel-Arrow
exporter](https://github.com/open-telemetry/otel-arrow/blob/main/collector/exporter/otelarrowexporter/README.md)
converts OTLP data into an optimized representation and then sends
batches of data using Apache Arrow to encode the stream.  This
component contains logic to reverse the process used in the OTel-Arrow
exporter.

The use of an OTel-Arrow exporter-receiver pair is recommended when
the network is expensive.  Typically, expect to see a 50% reduction in
bandwidth compared with the same data being sent using standard
OTLP/gRPC and gzip compression.

This component includes all the features and configuration of the core
OTLP receiver, making it possible to upgrade from the core component
simply by replacing "otlp" with "otelarrow" as the component name in
the collector configuration.

To enable the OTel-Arrow receiver, include it in the list of receivers
for a pipeline.  No further configuration is needed.  This receiver
listens on the standard OTLP/gRPC port 4317 and serves standard OTLP
over gRPC out of the box.

```yaml
receivers:
  otelarrow:
```

## Advanced Configuration

Users may wish to configure gRPC settings, for example:

```
receivers:
  otelarrow:
    protocols:
      grpc:
        ...
```

- `endpoint` (default = 0.0.0.0:4317 for grpc protocol):
  host:port to which the receiver is going to receive data. The valid syntax is
  described at https://github.com/grpc/grpc/blob/master/doc/naming.md.

Several common configuration structures provide additional capabilities automatically:

- [gRPC settings](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/blob/main/config/configgrpc/README.md)
- [TLS and mTLS settings](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/blob/main/config/configtls/README.md)

### Arrow-specific Configuration

In the `arrow` configuration block, the following settings are available:

- `memory_limit_mib` (default: 128): limits the amount of concurrent memory used by Arrow data buffers.

When the limit is reached, the receiver will return RESOURCE_EXHAUSTED
error codes to the receiver, which are [conditionally retryable, see
exporter retry configuration](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/blob/main/exporter/exporterhelper/README.md).

- `admission_limit_mib` (default: 64): limits the number of requests that are received by the stream based on request size information available. This should not be confused with `memory_limit_mib` which limits allocations made by the consumer when translating arrow records into pdata objects. i.e. request size is used to control how much traffic we admit, but does not control how much memory is used during request processing.

- `waiter_limit` (default: 1000): limits the number of requests waiting on admission once `admission_limit_mib` is reached. This is another dimension of memory limiting that ensures waiters are not holding onto a significant amount of memory while waiting to be processed.

`admission_limit_mib` and `waiter_limit` are arguments supplied to [admission.BoundedQueue](https://github.com/open-telemetry/otel-arrow/tree/main/collector/admission). This custom semaphore is meant to be used within receivers to help limit memory within the collector pipeline.

### Compression Configuration

In the `arrow` configuration block, `zstd` sub-section applies to all
compression levels used by exporters:

- `memory_limit_mib` limits memory dedicated to Zstd decompression, per stream (default 128)
- `max_window_size_mib`: maximum size of the Zstd window in MiB, 0 indicates to determine based on level (default 32)
- `concurrency`: controls background CPU used for decompression, 0 indicates to let `zstd` library decide (default 1)

### Keepalive configuration

As a gRPC streaming service, the OTel Arrow receiver is able to limit
stream lifetime through configuration of the underlying http/2
connection via keepalive settings.

Keepalive settings are vital to the operation of OTel Arrow, because
longer-lived streams use more memory and streams are fixed to a single
host.  Since every stream of data is different, we recommend
experimenting to find a good balance between memory usage, stream
lifetime, and load balance.

gRPC libraries do not build-in a facility for long-lived RPCs to learn
about impending http/2 connection state changes, including the event
that initiates connection reset.  While the receiver knows its own
keepalive settings, a shorter maximum connection lifetime can be
imposed by intermediate http/2 proxies, and therefore the receiver and
exporter are expected to independently configure these limits.

```
receivers:
  otelarrow:
    protocols:
      grpc:
        keepalive:
          server_parameters:
            max_connection_age: 1m
            max_connection_age_grace: 10m
```

In the example configuration above, OTel-Arrow streams will have reset
initiated after 10 minutes.  Note that `max_connection_age` is set to
a small value and we recommend tuning `max_connection_age_grace`.

OTel Arrow exporters are expected to configure their
`max_stream_lifetime` property to a value that is slightly smaller
than the receiver's `max_connection_age_grace` setting, which causes
the exporter to cleanly shut down streams, allowing requests to
complete before the http/2 connection is forcibly closed.  While the
exporter will retry data that was in-flight during an unexpected
stream shutdown, instrumentation about the telemety pipeline will show
RPC errors when the exporter's `max_stream_lifetime` is not configured
correctly.

[See the exporter README for more
guidance](../../exporter/otelarrowexporter/README.md).  For the
example where `max_connection_age_grace` is set to 10 minutes, the
exporter's `max_stream_lifetime` should be set to the same number
minus a reasonable timeout to allow in-flight requests to complete.
For example, an exporter with `9m30s` stream lifetime:

```
exporters:
  otelarrow:
    timeout: 30s
    arrow:
      max_stream_lifetime: 9m30s
    endpoint: ...
    tls: ...
```

### Receiver metrics

In addition to the the standard
[obsreport](https://pkg.go.dev/go.opentelemetry.io/collector/obsreport)
metrics, this component provides network-level measurement instruments
which we anticipate will become part of `obsreport` in the future.  At
the `normal` level of metrics detail:

- `receiver_recv`: uncompressed bytes received, prior to compression
- `receiver_recv_wire`: compressed bytes received, on the wire.

Arrow's compression performance can be derived by dividing the average
`receiver_recv` value by the average `receiver_recv_wire` value.

At the `detailed` metrics detail level, information about the stream
of data being returned from the receiver will be instrumented:

- `receiver_sent`: uncompressed bytes sent, prior to compression
- `receiver_sent_wire`: compressed bytes sent, on the wire.

There several OTel-Arrow-consumer related metrics available to help
diagnose internal performance.  These are disabled at the basic level
of detail.  At the normal level, these metrics are introduced:

- `arrow_batch_records`: Counter of Arrow-IPC records processed
- `arrow_memory_inuse`: UpDownCounter of memory in use by current streams
- `arrow_schema_resets`: Counter of times the schema was adjusted, by data type.

```
service
  ...
  telemetry:
    ...
    metrics:
      ...
      level: detailed
```
